# Abstract

Being fatigued is a common state of everyone's daily life. It is a
natural sign of your body that signals you to have a break and rest.
However, as soon as this state of fatigue lasts longer and does not go
back through short breaks, you could consider yourself being cognitively
fatigued. This type of fatigue persists after long-term cognitive and
mental stress. The purpose of this report is to look at a methodology to
use a cross platform application to determine cognitive fatigue.

# Introduction

Cognitive fatigue arises from prolonged periods of time in which
mentally demanding tasks are performed that induce a state of subjective
exhaustion, feelings of "tiredness and lack of energy", and decline in
performance \[1\]. It can be said that mental fatigue is felt much more
often after mentally strenuous tasks than after physical exertion.
Examples that can lead to cognitive fatigue are, for example, strenuous
work days without appropriate compensation or processing the tax return
\[2\]. Especially with prolonged mental stress, we often feel drained
and have the feeling that we can no longer continue. A classic example
of this is a long drive. This strains our brain so much that after a
certain time we are no longer able to drive and need a break, although
the body itself did not have to work hard \[2\]. Symptoms of cognitive
fatigue can mainly be described as follows: poor concentration,
forgetfulness, slight irritation, simple tasks seem difficult to solve,
feeling overwhelmed, physical stress symptoms such as headaches, tension
and an increased heart rate, feeling of a mental block, you feel foggy
and sleep is harder \[3\].

Since there is currently no standardized test for recording cognitive
fatigue available and biological markers cannot be used to identify
these \[4\], the task was to write an application that should determine
cognitive fatigue as part of a study on the basis of daily self-tests.

The application should therefore be able to determine the general
condition of a subject with the help of a questionnaire that should be
filled out regularly and replace earlier paper questionnaires and be
able to save it centrally in a database. In addition, a self-test should
be available, which in the best case should be completed several times a
day. This should contain two tasks that check the respondent's reaction
time and memory ability. In addition, with each run of the self-test,
the current emotional state and the current activity of the test person
are recorded so that conclusions can be drawn from them later. This
information is recorded in a database that is to be exchanged regularly
with a server database in order to be able to export all user data
centrally for a study.

\[1\] Shortz, A.E., Pickens, A., Zheng, Q. et al. The effect of
cognitive fatigue on prefrontal cortex correlates of neuromuscular
fatigue in older women. J NeuroEngineering Rehabil 12, 115 (2015).
https://doi-org.ezproxy.hs-augsburg.de/10.1186/s12984-015-0108-3 \[2\]
Wylie, G.R., Genova, H.M., DeLuca, J. et al. The relationship between
outcome prediction and cognitive fatigue: A convergence of paradigms.
Cogn Affect Behav Neurosci 17, 838--849 (2017).
https://doi-org.ezproxy.hs-augsburg.de/10.3758/s13415-017-0515-y \[3\]
Scott, E., Feeling irritated, stressed, and finding it hard to get stuff
done? You might have cognitive fatigue (2019).
https://metro.co.uk/2019/02/09/feeling-irritated-stressed-finding-hard-get-stuff-done-might-cognitive-fatigue-8469750/
\[4\] Price E., Moore G., Galway L., Linden M. (2016) From Paper to Play
- Design and Validation of a Smartphone Based Cognitive Fatigue
Assessment Application. In: García C., Caballero-Gil P., Burmester M.,
Quesada-Arencibia A. (eds) Ubiquitous Computing and Ambient
Intelligence. UCAmI 2016. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 10069.
Springer, Cham.
https://doi-org.ezproxy.hs-augsburg.de/10.1007/978-3-319-48746-5_33

# Background

## Sample headline 1

Sample Text

## Sample headline 2

Sample Text

# Methodology

This section deals with the development process and how the project
topic was approached, as well as the decisions made in relation to the
programming languages and environments.

Furthermore, we deal with the architecture of the application, that is
divided into stand-alone client area and a server architecture. The data
exchange and export plays an important role here, which is also
discussed in this chapter and later in the implementation part of the
report.

## Project management

Overall, the project took place within five weeks and five participants
who worked full time on the project. The decision in the area of project
management are described in more detail below.

### Agile project development with scrum

The project management method SCRUM in a simplified version was chosen
for the project. This had the advantage that, on the one hand,
programming was agile under certain rules, on the other hand some times
and some overhead were reduced.

The Daily Scrum Meeting was an important part of the daily routine,
which was occasionally expanded to talk about the current status and
follow up on the relevant issues. Due to the limited project time of
five weeks, it was decided against the use of sprints and the additional
overhead.

A retrospective meeting was also held once a week, which should contain
the current problems and suggestions for improvement, but also positive
aspects of the project. That helped the project flow and the
satisfaction of the participants.

### Open Source Software

The soTired project emerged as a university project in which all
participants decided to implement an open source solution. This means
that both, so the client application code and the server code are
publicly available under the license \* insert license here \*. This
means that everyone can view the code, edit it and use it for their own
purposes if it can still be made available as an open source solution.
This has the advantage that the study participants can see the code and
which data is used and stored. This ensures data security. In addition,
the code used here is made available to the science and can be further
developed. Since the study project is very limited in time, there are
some areas of the app that can be added and adapted later on. This can
increase the quality of the code in some way.

## Architecture

Sample text here

## Database management

Sample text here.

## User interface

sample text here

## Client server communication

sample text here

# Implementation

sample text here

## Flutter application

Sample text here.

## Go backend

sample text here.

# Results and discussion

## Sample headline 1

Sample Text

## Sample headline 2

Sample Text

# Conclusion

## Sample headline 1

Sample Text

## Sample headline 2

Sample Text

# References

\[1\] Test
