# Introduction

Cognitive fatigue arises from prolonged periods of time in which mentally
demanding tasks are performed that induce a state of subjective exhaustion,
feelings of “tiredness and lack of energy”, and decline in performance [1].
It can be said that mental fatigue is felt much more often after mentally
strenuous tasks than after physical exertion. Examples that can lead to
cognitive fatigue are, for example, strenuous work days without appropriate
compensation or processing the tax return [2]. Especially with prolonged
mental stress, we often feel drained and have the feeling that we can no
longer continue. A classic example of this is a long drive. This strains our
brain so much that after a certain time we are no longer able to drive and
need a break, although the body itself did not have to work hard [2].
Symptoms of cognitive fatigue can mainly be described as follows: poor
concentration, forgetfulness, slight irritation, simple tasks seem difficult
to solve, feeling overwhelmed, physical stress symptoms such as headaches,
tension and an increased heart rate, feeling of a mental block, you feel foggy
and sleep is harder [3].

Since there is currently no standardized test for recording cognitive fatigue
available and biological markers cannot be used to identify these [4], the
task was to write an application that should determine cognitive fatigue as
part of a study on the basis of daily self-tests.

Therefore, the application should be able to determine the general condition
of a subject with the help of a questionnaire that should be filled out
regularly and replace earlier paper questionnaires. Additionally, the
application will be able to save their collected research data centrally on a
server for further processing. 

A self-test will be available. The app encourages the user to complete this
test several times per day. The test itself contains two tasks that check the
respondent's reaction time and memory ability. 

In addition, with each run of the self-test, the current emotional state and
the current activity of the test person are recorded so that conclusions can
be drawn from them later on. 

This information is stored in a database that is to be transferred regularly
to a server database in order to be able to export all user data centrally for
further analysis.

